[MUSIC]
Previously we looked at how value
function estimation can be framed as
supervised learning.
We made this precise by
specifying an objective.
Now we want to figure out how to
find solutions to this objective.
Today we'll talk about
a general strategy for
minimizing objectives
called gradient descent.
In the following videos,
we'll cover specific algorithms for
the objectives in reinforcement learning.
After watching this video,
you will be able to,
understand the idea of gradient descent,
and
understand that gradient descent
converges to stationary points.
We want to minimize the mean
squared value error,
to make our value estimates close
to the true value function.
Recall that our value estimate is
given by a function of the state,
parameterised by a set of
real-valued weights, W.
These ways determine how the value's
computed for each state,
changing the weights will modify
the value estimate for many states.
We have to think about how to change
the weights to minimize the overall
value error.
To do that,
we'll need a little bit of calculus.
Hopefully, you remember the idea
of a derivative from calculus.
Here we've plotted a function f,
with scalar parameter W.
The derivative tells us how to locally
change W to increase or decrease f.
The sign of the derivative of
f at a particular point W,
indicates the direction to
change W to increase f.
The magnitude of the derivative
indicates the slope of
the function f at the point W.
That is,
how quickly f will change as we vary W.
Here the derivative is positive.
If we move W in this direction,
we increase f.
At this other point,
the derivative is negative,
it is pointing in
a direction to decrease W.
But this direction still
indicates how to increase f.
If we move W in this direction,
it increases f.
If we were to move it in the negative
of this direction, it would decrease f.
If f is privatized by more than
one variable, then W is a vector.
In this case, we need to introduce
the idea of a gradient to
describe how f changes
as the vector W changes.
The gradient is a vector
of partial derivatives,
indicating how a local change in each
component of W affects the function.
Notice that the gradient has to be
the same size as the weight vector.
The sign of each component of
the gradient specifies the direction to
change the associated component of W,
in order to increase f.
The direction is either positive or
negative.
The magnitude of the component
specifies how quickly f changes,
as W moves in that direction.
If the function is very steep in one
dimension, the magnitude will be high.
If it is very flat the magnitude of the
gradient in that dimension will be low.
Regardless of the magnitude, the gradient
gives the direction of steepest descent.
It provides the direction to change W, so
that locally f is maximally increased.
To give a specific example, let's derive
the gradient of a linear value function.
Remember, a linear value approximation
is just an inner product of the weights
with the feature vector for the state.
The partial derivative of that
with respect to a single weight,
is just the feature
associated with that weight.
Remember, the features themselves
do not depend on the weights.
This means the gradient of a linear
value approximation is simply
the feature vector for that state.
Our objective is
a function of the weights.
For example, the mean squared value error
is a function of the weights because it
is a function of V hat, and
V hat is a function of the weights.
Our goal is to adjust the weights
to make the objective small.
Here we have a hypothetical
plot of our objective.
To keep things simple,
let's say our function is
parametrized by a single weight.
The x axis corresponds to this weight, and
the y-axis to the objective value for
this weight.
Because we have a single weight,
this means our gradient is
just a scalar derivative.
If we want to decrease
our objective function,
we should move the weights in the
direction of the negative of the gradient.
This is the idea of gradient descent.
Here's the gradient descent update
rule that captures this intuition.
We make small changes in the direction
that will most reduce the objective.
We use a step size parameter,
alpha, to control how far we move,
as otherwise there is
a risk of stepping too far.
This is because moving in this direction
is only guaranteed to decrease
the objective locally.
By doing such updates repeatedly
with a sufficiently small alpha,
we will eventually converge to a
stationary point where the gradient is 0.
Likely, this will be a local minimum.
This means these weights are better than
all weights in the immediate vicinity,
but may not be the best possible.
Other possible stationary points
are local maxima and saddle points.
These are unstable solutions the
stochasticity inherent in our algorithms
is usually enough to prevent getting
stuck at these poor stationary points.
On the other hand a local
minima is stable, so
even a stochastic algorithm
will tend to converge there.
For this reason we usually talk about our
algorithms converging to local minima.
In some cases, gradient descent is
guaranteed to converge to the global
minimum, which is the best possible
setting of the weights for the objective.
For example, this is true for
the mean squared value error with
linear function approximation.
For more complex function approximate
errors such as a neural network,
a stationary point may
not be a global minimum.
Note that a global minimum does not
necessarily correspond to the true
value function.
It is limited by our choice of
function parameterization, and
depends on our choice of objective.
Imagine a feature vector which just
contains a single element that is
always one,
no matter what state you are in.
The approximate value function that
minimizes mean squared value error,
will converge to the average
value over all the states.
This is not a very good value function.
However, this is still
the best we can do under that
parameterization in terms of
the value error objective.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand how gradient
descent can be used to find stationary
points of objectives, and that these
solutions are not always globally optimal.
Next time we'll talk about how to use
gradient descent specifically for
our error.
See you then.